Hey there,
let's now create a remote database
hosted on MongoDB Atlas.
So, for developing our project we will actually not use
a local database on our computer,
like we've been doing in the section until this point.
So, instead, we're gonna use a remote database
hosted on a service called Atlas,
which is actually owned by the same company
that involves MongoDB.
And again, on the MongoDB website,
let's move over to Products,
and then here you have MongoDB Atlas.
So Atlas is a so-called database as a service provider
which takes all the pain of managing
and scaling databases away from us.
So that already is a huge advantage for us
but it's also extremely useful to always have our data
basically in the Cloud, because this way
we can develop our application from everywhere
and, even more importantly, we don't have to export data
from the local database and then upload it
to a hosted database, once we are ready
to deploy our application.
So instead we simply use this hosted database
right from the beginning, instead of even messing
with local databases in the first place, all right?
Now, of course, if you are one of the students
who doesn't have access to the internet
then you just have to keep using a local database
just as we learned until this lecture.
So that's no problem at all, I will of course teach you
how to connect our application later,
with both a database hosted on Atlas
and also a local database, all right?
Anyway, let's now go ahead and start your free account.
Okay, so just Start Free and then down here
you should create your account.
Of course I already have my account,
so I'm not gonna do that.
So please just pause the video here, at this point,
and once you're ready, just come back here
to set up our first remote database.
All right, so when you log in, into Atlas,
it should look something like this.
I'm not sure how it looks the first time when you log in
but at some place you will be able to create a new project.
So in this case, I have here the button
or you can also come here to the left side
and then down here create a New Project.
Now I already have two natours projects here
simply because I had to build of course this application
before creating the course.
And so, let's now create yet another one.
So let me call this one natours-app, okay
but you can call yours just natours,
so just like this or, if you want to have the same name,
then just go ahead and call it natours-app, as well, okay?
So, create a new project.
You should then give yourself the Project Owner Permission
which should by default be enabled already
and then just create the project.
Wait a little bit until it's ready.
And here we go.
So we have our project created,
now it's time to Build a Cluster.
And a cluster is basically like an instance
of our database, okay?
So now it's time to configure the cluster.
I'm simply using the default settings here
because that is gonna allow me
to create a free cluster, okay?
So that's what I want to do for this application.
So all of this fine by me,
so this M0 here stands for the free cluster
which is gonna give us 512MB of storage
and a maximum of 100 simultaneous connections, okay?
If you want more, then of course, you can start paying
for this, but in this case of course
that's not what we want.
So we want to just build everything for free for now.
Now it's asking me for this stupid capture here.
So our cluster is now being created,
which usually takes some time
and so I'm just gonna come back to just
once this is actually ready.
And it's done! So, this is how your project
and your brand new cluster should look like at this point.
Okay? And so this step is ready,
now you have a blank empty database, ready to connect
to your own development computer.
And so that is exactly what we're gonna do
in the next video.